# Close look at Network Architecture

[TOC]

It is important to understand these **fundamental descriptions** of network structures:

* **Network Edge**: Applications and Hosts at End Nodes
* **Network Core**: Digital Packet Routing Devices/links
* **Physical Media**: Wiring and Wirless links

## Network Edge

The **Network Edge** comprises of all end devices and their applications, utilizing the Network Core for communication.

Some examples of **End Devices** are:

* Computers
* Network Printers
* VoIP Phones
* Security Cameras
* Mobile devices

End devices can be **Clients** or **Hosts/Servers**.

## Network Core

The **Network Core** is comprised of interconnected devices, per example:

* Network Access Devices (Hubs, Switches, Wireless Acess Points)
* Internetworking Devices (Routers)
* Communication Servers and Modems
* Security Devices (firewalls)

These devices play a role in passing information between end devices and have no impact on modifying the data itself, just **Transmitting data**.

### Repeaters

The **Repeater** is a simple devices that **Re-strengthens/Amplifies** a signal over long distances. This is due to the fact that signals past over a physical medium over a large distance experince **Signal Decay**

In instance **Repeaters are merely Signal Amplifiers** and **Inexpensive**

They can only be used between **Simular Network Segments**

One **Weakness** to repeaters is that it will also amplify **Signal Noise** if any exists.

### Hubs

The **Hub** is a device used to link several computers together. It can repeate any signal from one port and copy into another.

There are **Two Types of Hubs**

* **Passive Hub**: Connect all ports together electrically and are usually not powered.
* **Active Hub**: Use elecronics to amplify and clean up the signal before distributing across new ports.
* **Intelligent Hubs**: Active hubs which can be remotely managed on the network.

**Note** That hubs are not used to connect to the Internet in any way, only to create networks between end nodes and devices which do connect to the internet.

### Bridges

The **Bridge** is used to connect similuar topologies and are used to devide networks into segments. This is done so 